I buhdeuce yen it's not surprising at
all that some meat eaters will say to
you cynically that veganism is a
doctrine of compassion and that there
for you as a vegan should have
compassion for meters that you should
set aside your differences eat at the
same table with them even share your
food with them by the same food and give
it to them whatever that you should
compromise your ethics out of compassion
for people who disagree with you on this
issue and that to be uncompromising or
unyielding to refuse to participate in
buying meat cooking meat serving meat
that this is somehow wrong because it
shows a lack of compassion for meat
eaters but my sister had already spoiled
the party to be honest with you because
of her vegan ways the buffet that she
laid on like she comes here she comes we
have to have a little party here I lay
on a buffet I put on vegetarian and
vegan options you know I don't like that
those are our choices but I respect them
as being her choices so we do that I do
that I'll go out my way and do extra
shopping to do that for her her party
there was not one meat item why can a
vegan not have the same amount of
respect for a meat-eater we're allowing
your opinions we are respecting yet
we're not attacking yet we are providing
vegan options fear but you won't do the
same in return it's somewhat more
surprising that I so consistently hear
this from other vegans because I do here
exactly the same argument from vegans
that veganism is supposed to be about
compassion it's supposed to be able to
us feeling great about ourselves and
that we should not make meat eaters feel
bad about themselves people you should
have compassion for them and we should
regard their views as if they were
correct even though we we know that
they're wrong the fundamental flaw here
Idzik waiting compassion with
indifference if I actually care about
you if I actually have compassion for
you why would I be indifferent to your
the fact that you're killing animals and
you're killing yourself
you're damaging your own health possibly
destroying your own health depends on
their meat eating diet but whether
you're eating milk meat eggs whatever
the non-vegan foods you're eating our i
can guarantee they're bad for you I can
guarantee you're harming yourself and I
can guarantee that you're harming
animals and that you're harming the
environment you're making the world a
worse place for everyone for the animals
but also for yourself so if I have
compassion for you why would I be
indifferent to the misery you're causing
that just doesn't make sense you know I
just thought vegan is just to blend
there's too many reasons people can come
on and they don't share my convictions
and I'm like I don't even want to be a
vegan anymore I'm an ethical vegan if I
say that I'm an ethical vegan just from
those two words long you know why I am a
vegan you know what I genuinely care
about and you know what I want to spray
it if I tell you I'm an ethical vegan a
lot of you claim that you are an ethical
vegan claim if I as a vegan have
compassion for meters I'm not going to
be in different 2 meters and the truth
is most of the time we don't we don't
have that much compassion if I go to a
shoe store to buy a pair of shoes I'm
not going to testify to the guy I'm
talking to because I'm just trying to
find size 13 Tripoli your size 14 us
sizes i got big feet i'm not going to
break it down for him why i'm not
willing to buy leather shoes I'm not
gonna say oh hey have you heard the good
word of our Lord and Savior veganism I'm
not going to put that guilt trip I oh
yeah and guess what thanks for helping
me find this the one pair of shoes you
have that size extra extra large and
doesn't have 11 but by the way I think
you're a piece of I think ethically
you're inferior to me in every way
because of what you put your mother I
don't I don't but anyone in my life
where I do have some level of respect
some love some connection if I really
care about them if I feel compassion for
them at some point that's got to come up
sure it's got to come up because they're
doing real harm to themselves they're
doing real harm to the animals they're
doing real harm to the world's ecology
and why would I be indifferent to that
if I have compassion for meat eaters why
wouldn't I express that compassion
through veganism rather than through a
betrayal of veganism if there were a
candidate who believed that being gay
was a sin it was a crime and they're all
going to hell shared your politics and
everything else but believe that could
you vote for them so you have things
that are amoral non-starter for you
right just by virtue of you doing or
believing a certain thing I can't vote
for you there's a lot of emotional
content on this channel I actually do
not have a running count for how many
times have broken down weeping on camera
it's a number it's happened several
times but I think nevertheless there's a
very fundamental difference between
people who see the world in terms of
feelings and people who see the world in
terms of outcomes and one of the
nastiest divisions that exists within
veganism is definitely the issue of
insisting on viewing human feelings as
the primary purpose of veganism now what
do I mean by this if you haven't
encountered this yet you will as a vegan
eventually you will there are some
vegans who say how dare you hurt the
feelings of meat-eaters how dare you
disrespect and disturb meat-eaters how
dare you make them feel bad about
themselves because they thanked the
reason the primary purpose of veganism
is feeling good that we as vegans feel
good about it so we do this in order to
feel good doing this makes us feel that
we should show up as we should share
with others how good we feel um but this
does not justify making others feel bad
making others feel guilty etc because
feelings
or what matters here now I don't see the
world that way at all I can understand
that perspective understand when I hear
it from vegans and understand it when
hear from meat eaters when you hear from
meteors it makes even more sense because
the meteors say that they respect vegans
there for vegans ought to respect them
in return mutual respect mutual
compromise mutual coexistence her party
there was not one meat item why can a
vegan not have the same amount of
respect for a meat eater and you know
what she says oh I've explained to the
children well they're six and therefore
these two girls that she's got she's
explained about being a vegan and
vegetarian they support that decision
well when I'd get sent to pick them up
from school because she's too busy and I
bad him sweeties on the way home I
explained to them that her EBO are made
we the horses hoops and all that kind of
stuff and it's got animal products in
they don't care they will stuff that
Harry bow right down give him an ice
cream get me an ice cream from the ice
cream man on the way home on a sunny day
tell them that it's made with milk and
stuff they don't care so she's lying she
is kidding herself getting herself but
it's not about feelings at the photo
comes and as soon as we shift to viewing
the world in terms of outcomes it's
actually unflattering to the vegan cars
right if we think in terms of feelings
to take one example of a feeling a
feeling of the moral purity it's very
easy for me to sit down at the cafeteria
here in China every day and for me to
feel morally pure because there's no
beef on my plate there's no dead animal
material on my plate on my side of the
table right but the reality is sitting
next to me sitting across there are
other people with other plates and
they're reading animals so the outcomes
are the same I'm not saving the life of
even one cow by refusing to eat meat in
this cafeteria day after day after day I
have zero impact now if one hundred
percent of the students in this school
refuse to eat meat then the school would
stop buying meat they would stop cooking
meat and that might have some impact
right but as an individual I can believe
in a delusion of moral purity that
because the meat isn't on my plate
because it isn't entering my body that
I'm making the world a better place but
in terms of real incomes sorry pardon me
in terms of real outcomes the impact is
absolutely zero because this school is
going to buy the same amount of meat and
cook the same mad at me day after day
for the students as a collective whole
when there's just one vegan in that
student body I have no impact right in
the other hand if we care about outcomes
a meat eater who goes to a vegans house
seriously says not joking says that the
vegan ought to buy meat and serve meat
to the meat-eating guests in the same
way that this mediator claims if he were
the host he would invite these vegans
into his home and he would prepare vegan
food for them heard of respect so this
is viewing veganism as if it's just
about feelings as if it's just about
identity identity politics I put on
vegetarian vegan options you know I
don't like that those are our choices
but I respect them as being her choices
so we do that I do that I'll go out my
way and do extra shopping to do that for
her her party there was not one meat
item why can a vegan not have the same
amount of respect for a meat-eater if
it's about outcomes how could I possibly
make that comrade why would I make the
compromise I think that caring about
outcomes leads you to make meaningful
compromises where there are real results
where there are real outcomes but when
there's no possible positive or there's
a real harm done by buying meat I'm
contributing to this you know shocking
obscenity of the you know
industrialized beef agriculture industry
might make you feel comfortable might
make you feel good about yourself but is
it there's a question of cause and
effect here there's a question of my
doing something that's actually immoral
to make you feel better you know and
those outcomes even if tiny are real and
your feelings are not I don't mean that
you know what feelings are real feelings
are real the feelings also can be wrong
you can have a grandfather who's racist
and it'll make him feel better if you
agree with him but his feelings are
wrong so you don't want to do that you
can flatter him or you can avoid the
subject or you can deal with it head-on
but he's got his feelings his feelings
are real and they may reflect a century
of experience he may have all kinds of
reasons for why he feels Louie does but
it's still wrong and meat eaters they
don't just have once they have a
millennium of reasons to feel the way
they do to value meat including
especially you know religious rituals
involving meat-eating and sharing meet
the symbolic value and even dietary
value what have you of meat in there of
their life their culture they may have
all kinds of very strong deeply-held
reasons for why they eat meat why they
think it's necessary and natural and
normal and even more really positive and
good I've seen so many charities were
their main way of helping poor people is
giving them meat we're sharing meet with
the poor is of such religious and
symbolism but it's still wrong you know
your charity may go out and give turkeys
to homeless people in the united states
that since it at a very powerful form of
sherry it's giving turkey meat to
homeless people in the Muslim world it's
normally goat meat or lamb meat you know
dead sheep and I've seen that I've seen
that in Southeast Asia you know they
think that's a tremendous ability to go
out in and find the poorest of the poor
and share or meet with them but it's
still wrong it's bad for the animal it's
bad for the environment it's bad for you
it's bad for your health you're actually
slightly poisoning
all the people who should have food with
so I retract what I said earlier it's
not that the feelings are unreal and
that the outcomes are real it's not that
simple they're both real in their sense
but the outcomes are real and your
feelings can't be wrong I think that
caring about outcomes doesn't result in
us becoming harsh and unyielding and
uncompromising I think it leads us to
seek out the compromises that are really
worth making if you want to set up a
charity in Southeast Asia in Cambodia in
Laos in Indonesia you name it you may
have serious problems with the
government that you have to compromise
it there and then you have to ask
yourself okay if I'm going to run this
charity maybe it's a charity to promote
veganism or animal rights or ecology
maybe it's just a charity to give food
to starving people and maybe you've
reached a level of sophistication where
you realize that it's a lot more
meaningful to give vegan food to
starving people than to kill an animal
to have an animal lipids whole life in
misery have its throat slit suffer and
die to feed those same people but
whatever your charity is if you're
pursuing those charitable goals and
you've got to sign a contract with the
government of that country going to sign
a memorandum of understanding you got to
set up the foundation you got to make
those commitments legal and otherwise
you have to compromise if if those goals
are worth it you're going to make that
compromise and you have to decide it
keeps me I've given advice to charities
that I remember one charity I advise
them not to my final advice them was
don't do it don't time the agreement
don't sit up here and they took my faith
so I ended up making the executive
decision I guess when that particular
charity they canceled their project in
Laos because of the advice that gave
them actually which is interesting all
time I give people advice they disregard
it which is also interesting in a
different way why would I make the
compromise of paying someone to kill an
animal just to make a meat eater feel
more comfortable when he comes to my
house
that's meaningless compromise it's a
wrong compromise it's the wrong thing to
do and it's just not the case that we
have to choose between being
uncompromising and compromising our
ethical values the point is we can make
meaningful compromises in pursuit of
meaningful goals and we can also
recognize that living by our own moral
principles will inevitably hurt the
feelings of others whose moral
principles are so fundamentally
different from our own ah the new CN if
we start dropping all then the only
thing left are those who publicly tell
you to your face that I don't give a
about veganism I'm only here to
exploit dramatize different stories so I
can make and earn a living because this
is the only way I know how to